On the Air Updating with Micropython using OTA.py

Requirements:
A web server running PHP on a local LAN, or an internet website you have FTP access to.
Create a directory to which your ESPs can connect to download update files. Ideally this folder should not be publicly
accessible and have meta tags to deny web robots.

The ESPs must have a means of connectivity to the internet, or a LAN if updating from a web server in a local network.
The program running on the ESPs must connect to the internet periodically to check for and download the updates.

There are two parts to this process. 

1] The class library OTA.py, which checks, downloads and installs updates.
This will be running in your program, which must not be called "main.py". I have used the name "program.py" throughout this guide.
Pre-requisite for program.py is it should have access to the web server, a version number, the url of the update folder on the server.
It can contain other modules, libraries etc and there are no restrictions to the code or what it does, except it must ALL be contained in functions 
as a standalone module, so for an existing program, move all the main code to a function called maincode() which will be the entry point of your program.
This is not too much of a problem normally, but you may have to pay more attention to the scope of your variables.
Finally, for this system to work you must use Deepsleep, even if it is only for a duration of 1 second, so the updated files can be 
reloaded into the namespace and run.
If this is a problem with regard to losing variable from volatile memory, check out my class RMM.py which saves variables to RTC memory 
which survives deepsleep, or write and read them to a file.

2] main.py 
This is the part that restores files from backups in case the updated program crashes on entry, either due to typos in the code
or corruption during download.
On boot, main calls your program. Your program function "maincode()" should always return the duration to deepsleep in miliseconds.
This can be 1000 to just update and reboot, to much longer periods depending on your requirements.


How it works:
program.py does whatever you want it to during normal operation.
If your program periodically connects to the server to upload data, then have it check for updates at the same time.
If it doesn't do that, you should set some kind of trigger to check periodically for updates, such as an RTC alarm or counter.
If there are no updates, or the server is unavailable, the program continues from where it left off.
If there are updates, they are downloaded, any files they are replacing will be backed up, and the old files overwritten with
the new files downloaded. The program then returns to main.py with the deepsleep parameter, and main enters deepsleep 
for this period. On emerging from deepsleep, the updated program will be running. If there is a crash, main restores the 
backup of the program that crashed, if there is one. Its worth noting here that if you alter program.py radically, and the update
uses a library that it did not previously [which is downloaded at the same time], that library will not have  a backup, because
it was not present before.

Because of memory problems caused by downloading and saving large programs, programs to download are split up into chunks
of around 4Kb each. OTA.py downloads all the chunks, re-assembles them and installs the file.

Splitting the programs into chunks:
The utility program split_files.py will split the files, name the chunks, and save them to a folder ready to be uploaded to the server.
It runs on Python3, so will run on a PC, Mac or Raspberry Pi with Python installed.
Its fairly intuitive to use. First it prompts for the MAC Address of the ESP the update is intended for.
This is so individual ESPs get the correct software. The MAC should be preceded by the version number of the program.
This ensures the updates are only downloaded once, and you can remove them from the server at your leisure.
(See the demo programs for an explanation of this). 
It then prompts for the name of the file to process, which should be in the same folder as split_files.py
and then prompts for the name of that file as it should be on the ESP.
This is so you can different versions and names on your development platform for the same program on the ESP.
This process is repeated until you press enter without a fileneme, so you can process several files at a time.
It then processes the files and writes the chunks to the same folder. In addition to the chunks is a file with the suffix
_data which tells OTA.py how many programs are download, there 'ESP names', and how many chunks in each one.
FTP all these up to your webserver, and they will be downloaded to the ESP next time it checks for updates.

The 3 demo programs demonstrate the functionality of OTA.py, and also explain the special requirements your
program needs in the comments.

Sanity check
The backup system is primarily a failsafe against corrupted downloads, and will work if the updated program crashes
when it is imported. It can not function correctly when runtime errors occur during within an otherwise normally running 
program . For that reason, you should effectively trap any foreseeable errors in your code and thoroughly test it prior
to remotely updating your ESPs, or you may find yourself having to retrieve them from the field to re-program them.

